README.md, before:

![wheels](https://github.com/deep-spin/lp-sparsemap/actions/workflows/wheels.yaml/badge.svg)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/lp-sparsemap.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/lp-sparsemap)

# LP-SparseMAP
Differentiable sparse structured prediction in coarse factor graphs


This repo contains:

  - `ad3qp`: an updated fork of [`ad3`](https://github.com/andre-martins/ad3),
  supporting the solving of SparseMAP QPs in arbitrary factor graphs. (C++, LGPL
  license.)

  - `dysparsemap`: a library that provides a dynet function using `ad3qp` for
  forward and backward pass computation for structured hidden layers. (C++, MIT
  license.) 

  - `lpsmap`: a python wrapper for `ad3qp` and some example usage scripts.
  (cython and python, MIT license.)  This repository is a work-in-progress,
  with the end-goal to drastically simplify the AD3 API.
  

## Reference

Vlad Niculae and Andre F. T. Martins.
LP-SparseMAP: Differentiable Relaxed Optimization for Sparse Structured
Prediction. https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.04437


## lpsmap

*Requirements:*
 - Cython
 - [Eigen](https://gitlab.com/libeigen/eigen) (if it's a non-standard directory,
   set `EIGEN_DIR=/path/to/eigen`.)

For examples and tests: numpy, pytest.

*Installation:*

```
pip install lp-sparsemap    # installs a wheel, if available.
```

*In-place installation from source:*

```
export EIGEN_DIR=/path/to/eigen
python setup.py build_clib  # builds ad3 in-place
pip install -e .            # builds lpsmap and creates a link
```


## dysparsemap

Requires [this patch to
dynet](https://github.com/vene/dynet/commit/3c5e0c0e2a6a398312edaf7297473677b052280e)
in order to make dynet export cmake targets to link against.
(sorry, I'm new to cmake and haven't managed to test it and make a PR yet.)

Once the patched dynet is installed, do

```mkdir cbuild
cd cbuild
cmake ..
make
```

Then you can try the dynet gradient check tests that get compiled.

Commit message:

clarify readme about linking and building

README.md, after:

![wheels](https://github.com/deep-spin/lp-sparsemap/actions/workflows/wheels.yaml/badge.svg)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/lp-sparsemap.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/lp-sparsemap)

# LP-SparseMAP
Differentiable sparse structured prediction in coarse factor graphs


This repo contains:

  - `ad3qp`: an updated fork of [`ad3`](https://github.com/andre-martins/ad3),
  supporting the solving of SparseMAP QPs in arbitrary factor graphs. (C++, LGPL
  license.)

  - `dysparsemap`: a library that provides a dynet function using `ad3qp` for
  forward and backward pass computation for structured hidden layers. (C++, MIT
  license.) 

  - `lpsmap`: a python wrapper for `ad3qp` and some example usage scripts.
  (cython and python, MIT license.)  This repository is a work-in-progress,
  with the end-goal to drastically simplify the AD3 API.
  

## Reference

Vlad Niculae and Andre F. T. Martins.
LP-SparseMAP: Differentiable Relaxed Optimization for Sparse Structured
Prediction. https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.04437


## lpsmap

*Requirements:*
 - Cython
 - [Eigen](https://gitlab.com/libeigen/eigen) (if it's a non-standard directory,
   set `EIGEN_DIR=/path/to/eigen`.)

For examples and tests: numpy, pytest.

*Installation:*

```
pip install lp-sparsemap    # installs a wheel, if available.
```

*In-place installation from source:*

```
# export MACOS_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=10.14  # on MacOS
export EIGEN_DIR=/path/to/eigen
python setup.py build_clib  # builds ad3 in-place
pip install -e .            # builds lpsmap and creates a link
```

*Using the Cython API from your own code.*

You can add custom factors and other extensions by `cimport`ing the base classes
provided. (See an example [in this
project](https://github.com/deep-spin/sparse-marginalization-lvm/).)  The
installed `lp-sparsemap` package provides a copy of `libad3` to statically link
against. To get the path to it, use `lpsmap.config.get_libdir()`.  *Warning:*
both `lp-sparsemap` as well as client libraries linking against it should be
compiled with the same standard library implementation. On MacOS you may have
issues unless `MACOS_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET >= 10.14`. If you get undefined symbol
errors for AD3 symbols, try compiling your code with the same toolchain as the
installed `lp-sparsemap`. (If in doubt, recompile both locally.)


## dysparsemap

Requires [this patch to
dynet](https://github.com/vene/dynet/commit/3c5e0c0e2a6a398312edaf7297473677b052280e)
in order to make dynet export cmake targets to link against.
(sorry, I'm new to cmake and haven't managed to test it and make a PR yet.)

Once the patched dynet is installed, do

```mkdir cbuild
cd cbuild
cmake ..
make
```

Then you can try the dynet gradient check tests that get compiled.
